Currently Logged on Users
At this point, we can list users
and their group memberships
so we can easily locate
administrative users.
As the next step, we want to
find logged-in users
that are members of high-value groups
since their credentials
will be cached in memory.
We could steal the credentials
and authenticate with them.
If we succeed in compromising
one of the Domain Admins,
we could eventually take
over the entire domain.
If we can’t immediately compromise
one of the Domain Admins,
we must compromise other
accounts or machines
to eventually gain that level of access.
For example, Bob is
logged in to CLIENT512
and is a local administrator
on all workstations.
Alice is logged in to CLIENT621 and is a
local administrator on all servers.
Finally, Jeff is logged in to SERVER21 and
is a member of the Domain Admins group.
If we manage to compromise Bob’s account,
we could pivot from CLIENT521
to target Alice on CLIENT621.
By extension, we may be able to pivot
again to compromise Jeff on SERVER21,
gaining domain access.
In this type of scenario, we must
tailor our enumeration
to consider not only Domain
Admins but also potential avenues
of “chained compromise” including a hunt
for a so-called derivative local admin.
To do so, let’s determine how we can
get a list of logged on users on a target.
We can either directly look for
a user logged into a computer
or we could track any
active logon sessions
towards a domain
controller or file server.
The two most reliable Windows functions
that can help us to find this information
are the NetWkstaUserEnum
and NetSessionEnum APIs.
While NetWkstaUserEnum requires
administrative permissions
and returns the list of all users
logged on to a target workstation,
NetSessionEnum can be used
as a regular domain user
and returns a list of active
user sessions on servers
such as fileservers or
domain controllers.
After compromising a domain machine,
we should enumerate every
computer in the domain
and then use NetWkstaUserEnum against
the list of computers we find.
Alternatively, we could try and
find the domain controllers
and any potential file servers in the
network and use NetSessionEnum
against these servers in order to
enumerate all active users’ sessions.
However, keep in mind that the
results from these two APIs will vary
depending on the permissions
of the current user
and the configuration of
the domain environment.
As a very basic example, we will
use the NetWkstaUserEnum API
to enumerate local users on the Windows 10
client machine and NetSessionEnum
to enumerate the users’ active
sessions on the domain controller.
Calling an operating system
API from PowerShell
is not completely straightforward.
Fortunately, researchers have come up with
a technique which simplifies the process.
The most common solution
is the use of PowerView,
a PowerShell script that is part
of the PowerShell Empire framework.
The PowerView script is already
on the Windows 10 client.
To use it we must first import it.
PowerView is quite large but we’ll
only use the Get-NetLoggedon function
to invoke NetWkstaUserEnum
and the Get-NetSession function
to invoke NetSessionEnum.
First, we will enumerate logged-in
users with Get-NetLoggedon…
along with the -ComputerName
option to specify the target machine,
which in this case is the
Windows 10 client.
The output reveals the expected
offsec user account.
Next, let’s try to enumerate active
sessions on the domain controller DC01.
Remember that these sessions
are performed against
the domain controller when
a user logs on,
but originate from a specific
workstation or server,
which is the information
we are trying to find.
We can invoke the
Get-NetSession function,
again using the -ComputerName flag,
this time targeting the domain controller.
This function will
return all active sessions.
As expected, the Offsec user has an
active session on the domain controller
from the Windows 10 client
due to an active login.
The information obtained from the
two APIs ended up being the same,
since we are targeting only
a single machine,
which also happens to be the one
we are executing our script from.
In a real Active Directory
infrastructure, however,
the information gained
using each API might differ.
Now that we can enumerate group
membership and determine which machines
users are currently logged in to, we
have the basic skills needed
to begin compromising user
accounts with the goal of obtaining
domain administrative privileges.